Sample: Single sign-on for Intranet apps (#2144)
microsoft/BotFramework-WebChat: samples/19.b.single-sign-on-for-intranet-apps/README.md

   -  We no longer have UI buttons for sign-in and sign-out, and only using plain HTML instead of React app
   -  We no longer send the sign-in and sign-out event activity to the bot
-  We only support a single [OAuth 2.0](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749)) provider, in this demo, we are using [Azure Active Directory](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/services/active-directory/)
   -  Azure Active Directory supports PKCE ([RFC 7636](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636)) and we are using PKCE to simplify setup
   -  If you are using GitHub or other OAuth providers that does not support PKCE, you should use client secret

This demo does not include any threat models and is designed for educational purpose only. When you design a production system, threat-modelling is an important task to make sure your system is secure and provide a way to quickly identify potential source of data breaches. IETF [RFC 6819](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6819) and [OAuth 2.0 for Browser-Based Apps](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-oauth-browser-based-apps-01#section-9) is a good starting point for threat-modelling when using OAuth 2.0.

# Test out the hosted sample

> You can browse to https://webchat-sample-sso-intranet.azurewebsites.net/ to try out this demo.

Author: Updated.

-  Go to your [Azure Active Directory](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_IAM/ActiveDirectoryMenuBlade/Overview)
-  Create a new application
   1. Select "App registrations"
   1. Click "New registration"
   1. Fill out "Name", for example, "Web Chat SSO Sample"
   1. In "Redirect URI (optional)" section, add a new entry
      1. Select "Public client (mobile & desktop)" as type
         -  Instead of client secret, we are using PKCE ([RFC 7636](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7636)) to exchange for authorization token, thus, we need to set it to ["Public client" instead of "Web"](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/v1-protocols-oauth-code#use-the-authorization-code-to-request-an-access-token)
      1. Enter `http://localhost:3000/api/oauth/callback` as the redirect URI
         -  This must match `OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI` in `/web/.env` we saved earlier
   -  Click "Register"
-  Save the client ID
   1. Select "Overview"
   1. On the main pane, copy the content of "Application (client) ID" to `/web/.env`, it should looks be a GUID
      -  `OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=12345678abcd-1234-5678-abcd-12345678abcd`

## Setup Azure Bot Services

> > We prefer to use [Bot Channel Registration](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.BotServiceConnectivityGalleryPackage) during development. This will help you diagnose problems locally without deploying to the server and speed up development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> We prefer using [Bot Channel Registration](https://ms.portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.BotServiceConnectivityGalleryPackage) during development. This will help you diagnose problems locally without deploying to the server and speed up development.
```

You can follow our instructions on how to [setup a new Bot Channel Registration](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/bot-service-quickstart-registration?view=azure-bot-service-3.0).

1. Save the Microsoft App ID and password to `/bot/.env`
   -  `MICROSOFT_APP_ID=12345678-1234-5678-abcd-12345678abcd`
   -  `MICROSOFT_APP_PASSWORD=a1b2c3d4e5f6`
1. Save the Web Chat secret to `/web/.env`
   -  `DIRECT_LINE_SECRET=a1b2c3.d4e5f6g7h8i9j0`

> When you are building your production bot, never expose your Web Chat or Direct Line secret to the client. Instead, you should use the secret to generate a limited token and send it to the client. For information, please refer [to this page on how to generate a Direct Line token](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/bot-service/rest-api/bot-framework-rest-direct-line-3-0-authentication?view=azure-bot-service-4.0#generate-token) and [Enhanced Direct Line Authentication feature](https://blog.botframework.com/2018/09/25/enhanced-direct-line-authentication-features/).

> During development, you will run your bot locally. Azure Bot Services will send activities to your bot thru a public URL. You can use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to expose your bot server on a public URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During development, you will run your bot locally. Azure Bot Services will send activities to your bot through a public URL. You can use [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) to expose your bot server on a public URL.
```

1. Run `ngrok http -host-header=localhost:3978 3978`
1. Update your Bot Channel Registration. You can use [Azure CLI](https://aka.ms/az-cli) or [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)
   -  Via Azure CLI
      -  Run `az bot update --resource-group <your-bot-rg> --name <your-bot-name> --subscription <your-subscription-id> --endpoint "https://a1b2c3d4.ngrok.io/api/messages"`
   -  Via Azure Portal
      -  Browse to your Bot Channel Registration
      -  Select "Settings"
      -  In "Configuration" section, set "Messaging Endpoint" to `https://a1b2c3d4.ngrok.io/api/messages`

## Prepare and run the code

> 1. Under each of `bot`, and `web` folder, run the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Under both the `bot`, and `web` folder, run the following:
```

   1. `npm install`
   1. `npm start`
1. Browse to http://localhost:3000/ to start the demo

# Things to try out

-  Type, "Hello" in Web Chat

>    -  The bot should be able to tell your full name by using your access token on Microsoft Graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  The bot should be able to identify your full name by using your access token on Microsoft Graph
```

# Code

-  `/bot/` is the bot server
-  `/web/` is the REST API for handling OAuth requests
   -  `GET /api/oauth/authorize` will redirect to Azure AD OAuth authorize page at https://login.microsoftonline.com/organizations/oauth2/v2.0/authorize
   -  `GET /api/oauth/callback` will handle callback from Azure AD OAuth
   -  `GET /api/directline/token` will generate a new Direct Line token for the React app
   -  It will serve a static `index.html`
   -  During development-time, it will also serve the bot server via `/api/messages/`
      -  To enable this feature, add `PROXY_BOT_URL=http://localhost:3978` to `/web/.env`

# Overview

This sample includes multiple parts:

> -  A basic web page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  A basic web page that:
```

>    -  Check your access token, redirect to OAuth provider if it is not present or valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  Checks your access token or redirects to OAuth provider if it is not present or valid
```

>    -  Integrated with Web Chat and piggyback your OAuth access token on every user-initiated activity thru `channelData.oauthAccessToken`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  Is integrated with Web Chat and piggybacks your OAuth access token on every user-initiated activity thru `channelData.oauthAccessToken`
```

-  Bot
   -  On every message, it will extract the OAuth access token and obtain user's full name from Microsoft Graph

## Assumptions

-  Developer has an existing Intranet web app that uses OAuth to access protected resources

>    -  We assume the OAuth access token lives in the browser's memory and is accessible thru JavaScript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  We assume the OAuth access token lives in the browser's memory and is accessible through JavaScript
```

>       -  Access token can live in browser memory but must be secured during transmit thru the use of TLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      -  Access token can live in browser memory but must be secured during transmit through the use of TLS
```

      -  More about security considerations can be found at [IETF RFC 6749 Section 10.3](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6749#section-10.3)

## Goals

-  Website and bot conversation supports authenticated access only

>    -  If the end-user is not authenticated or does not carry a valid authenticated, they will be redirected to OAuth provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  If the end-user is not authenticated or does not carry a valid authenticated token, they will be redirected to OAuth provider
```
Check this before commiting it

-  Bot will receive OAuth access token from the website

## Content of the `.env` files

> The `.env` file hold the environment variable critical to run the service. These are usually security-sensitive information and must not be committed to version control. Although we recommend to keep them in Azure Vault, for simplicity of this sample, we would keep them in `.env` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.env` files hold the environment variables critical to run the service. These are usually security-sensitive information and must not be committed to version control. Although we recommend keeping these keys in Azure Vault, for simplicity of this sample, we would keep them in `.env` files.
```

To ease the setup of this sample, here is the template of `.env` files.

### `/bot/.env`

```
MICROSOFT_APP_ID=12345678-1234-5678-abcd-12345678abcd
MICROSOFT_APP_PASSWORD=a1b2c3d4e5f6
```

### `/web/.env`

```
OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=12345678abcd-1234-5678-abcd-12345678abcd
OAUTH_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:3000/api/aad/oauth/callback
DIRECT_LINE_SECRET=a1b2c3.d4e5f6g7h8i9j0
```

# Frequently asked questions

## How can I reset my authorization?

> To reset application authorization, please follow steps below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reset application authorization, please follow the steps below.
```
